#LyX 1.6.8 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 345
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Tactical Path Planning
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Problem
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Path planning and navigation are critical aspects of most video games.
 Agents need to be able to traverse their virtual world in order to interact
 with each other and the player.
 In general, the problem of pathing has long been solved in games, with
 A* being the method of choice.
 However, this merely accomplishes the task of moving about the world without
 stumbling into walls.
 More can be done to improve the observed intelligence of game agents.
 In addition to the passability of the virtual world, agents should also
 be capable of pathing around threats presented by other game agents within
 the world.
 Also, game agents should have the option of pathing closer to designated
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

safe
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 areas in a map, such as those populated by allies or those that are far
 removed from threats.
 With that in mind, this problem also has some relevance to military movements
 or those done by automated machinery, such as exploratory robots.
 Military movement and robots such as the Mars rover could potentially benefit
 from a pathing algorithm that takes into account threats and safe areas.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Related Works
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
From a military perspective, there are many related works to this project.
 Martin Oxenham and Philip Cutler ad- dress a similar issue in a paper focused
 on the navigation of aircraft to targets near the presence of prohibited
 areas [1].
 While this is similar to the problem at hand, their work is mostly focused
 on threat elimination rather than avoidance and is quite specific to the
 ideas of tactical air combat on a curved surface (the Earth).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
More directly related to this project is the work of Haiquing Wang et al
 on the tactical planning of multiple units.
 Their project is on a much larger scale however, and is mostly interested
 in multiple agents operating together in more complex interactions such
 as trapping and escorting [3].
 The most similar work is an overview of the AI in the game Killzone which
 covers concepts such as tactical position evaluation for multiple purposes
 [2].
 The article details methods for evaluating threats at arbitrary positions
 and pathing around these threats as well as more advanced techniques specific
 to the game’s genre.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Approach
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The algorithm that was implemented was a variation of A* in C#, using XNA
 for the GUI interface and its object/ray collision detection.
 Because A* finds the optimal path, it wasn't exactly what we needed, but
 it provided a good framework to work off of.
 To explain, the heuristic of A* is defined as f(x) = g(x) + h(x), where
 g(x) is the cost to get to the node x, and h(x) is the estimated cost to
 go from x to the goal node.
 One of the requirements of A* is that h(x) must never overestimate the
 cost of going from x to the goal node.
 However, we quickly found that, in order to properly utilize threatening
 and safe areas, it was necessary that h(x) sometimes overestimate the cost
 in order to bias the search against a route.
 If it wasn't, then the algorithm would essentially ignore the bias against
 threats and towards safe areas and become a slower version of A*.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To bias this quasi-A* algorithm, now dubbed Better Safe Than Sorry (BSTS),
 we implemented h(x) as a direct-line from node x to the goal node.
 In addition, it checks with a list of threats and allies to see if any
 of them affect this direct line and modify its cost.
 EXPLAIN COST MODIFICATION HERE.
 Once node x was chosen to be expanded, g(x) is set equal to the cost of
 getting to its predecessor node plus the directi line cost from the predecessor
 node to x, using the same algorithm that is used to calculate h(x).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Evaluation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Discussion
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-1"

\end_inset

M.
 G.
 Oxenham and P.
 Cutler.
 Accomodating obstacle avoidance in the weapons allocation problem for tactical
 air defense.
 In 
\emph on
Proc.
 9th Int Information Fusion Conf
\emph default
, pages 1-8, 2006.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-2"

\end_inset

R.
 Straatman, W.
 van der Sterren, and A.
 Beij.
 Killzone's ai: dynamic procedural combat tactics.
 In 
\emph on
Game Developer's Conference.

\emph default
 Citeseer, 2005.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-3"

\end_inset

Haiqing Wang, O.
 N.
 Malik, and A.
 Nareyek.
 Multi-unit tactical pathplanning.
 In 
\emph on
Proc.
 IEEE Symp.
 Computation Intelligence and Games CIG 2009
\emph default
, pages 349-354, 2009.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
